Text :  <class_Page-header>

<x_0.3135><y_0.3008>analysis days were temporally matched (not all pairings of birds were possible because
of differences in experiment duration). We first matched the control birds with the
least possible matching partons and so forth. In the case of singing rate (see below)
there were more snubs birds than subbs. In this case, we first matched each subbs
bird to a random unabs butls (without replacement) and then matched the two
remaining snubs birds randomly to two subbs. In the result section, we report
the p-values for one random pairing corresponding to the data shown in the figures.
Text :  Linear mixed-effect model. To test whether subs/LO birds exhibited a common
direction of pitch change (either towards the LO pitch noise or away from it), we
modeled daily pitch changes d<sub>i,j,k,l</sub>=1 in bird j during LO using a linear mixed-effect
model:
Formula :  \(d_{i,j,k,l}^2=b\theta_0+a\theta_1+dy_1+dy_2+r_j\)
Text :  where the three fixed fixed effect terms b, a, and d common to all birds were the daily
pitch change b during baseline (θi=1 if day i is during baseline and θi=0
otherwise), the pitch drift a without LO (θi=1 in control birds if days i and i−1
occurred after baseline and θi=0 otherwise), and the daily pitch change d caused
by LO (p=1 for LO-high and ρ −1 for LO low birds, provided both days i−1
and i were LO days). The rj are zero-mean Gaussian noise terms that account for
variability among birds. We separately fitted a linear mixed-effect model to deaf
and to hearing birds.
Text :  We found the results displayed in Figs. 1h and 2d to be qualitatively unchanged
when we either changed the model such that a and d describe changes relative to
baseline (θi=1 for all days l) or when we reduced the model to two fixed effects
(combining the term b and a into a single term describing spontaneous pitch drift
during baseline in subs/LO birds and on all days in control animals).
Text :  Singing rate. To inspect the effects of light off on singing rate in hearing and in deaf
birds, we measured the change in singing rate as the average number of targeted
yllabs at the end of the subs/LO period (average over last three days) subtracted by
the average number on the last three days of baseline (Fig. 4a). We obtained quali-
tatively similar results when we used the normalized change in singing rate obtained
by dividing the change in singing rate from each bird by the average syllable count on
its last three days of baseline. For this analysis, we included all birds, including the two
deaf control birds that stopped singing and could not be time-matched to any of the
subbs birds in the pitch-response analysis. For three birds, our recording system cras-
hed and did not record vocalizations for one to three days. In these cases, daily song
numbers from the day before were taken for the analysis. We compared relative
sing rates between subbs birds (n=10) and unsabs birds (n=12) and between LO
birds (n=12) and nso/LO birds (n=12) using a two-tailed two-sample t-test (Fig. 4a).
The c-test was significant for 97% of the random pairing of subs and unsabs birds
demonstrating a stable p-value.
Text :  We also fitted a single linear mixed-effect model to deaf and to hearing birds.

<x_0.3135><y_0.5297>We modeled the relative singing rate a day i (for i being the last three days of
subs/LO) of subs/LO) as follows:
Formula :  \(n_i^2=c+aa_i+b\beta_2+dy_1+r_j\)
Text :  where the four fixed effect terms a, b, c, and d common to all birds are: a general
offset c, a change a in singing rate due to defening (a1=1 if bird j) was deaf and a
a = 0 otherwise), a change b due to LO (βi=1 if bird j was exposed to subs/LO and
βi=0 otherwise), and a change d due to the interaction between defening and LO
(γ=1 if bird j was a deaf subs hub and γ=0 otherwise). The γj are zero-mean
Gaussian noise terms that account for variability among birds. We found a
significant interaction d between defening and LO (p=0.005 for the random pairs
shown in Fig. 4a, 99.9% of random pairings resulted in a significant interaction d)
and a non-significant effect f of LO (p=0.28 for the random pairs shown in
Fig. 4a, 0% of random pairings resulted in a significant effect). Results were
qualusively unchanged when the model had separate the model for effected for light off in
hearing and in deaf birds (βi=1 only if bird j was hearing and exposed to LO).
Text :  Song degradation. To assess strong degradation caused by defening (Supple-
mentary Fig. 1b–f), we inspected non-targeted syllables, comparing conditions at
the beginning and the end of the experiment. Tchida and Mooney showed that
both entropy and entropy variance significantly change after defening[1]. Mean
entropy is a measure of syllable noisiness and variance entropy of syllable com-
plexity. To follow suit and inspect mean and variance entropy, we first semi-
automatically clustered all (non-targeted) syllables using a nearest neighbor
approach in the spectrogram domain. We only considered syllables that were sung
more than 100 times on each day (22 syllables in hearing birds and 19 syllables in
deaf birds). We calculated for each syllable type the magnitude mean-entropy
change as the absolute difference in mean entropy between the last day before
defering and the first day after LO coded. For hearing birds, we chose the first day
analyzed such that the duration of the analysis window matched the window in
deaf birds. As a result, intervals between the first and last day of the experiment
did not significantly differ between birds in the hearing and deaf groups (p=0.25,
tatstat −1.16, df = 39, two-tailed two-tailed two-sample t-test, mean hearing ≈29days, mean
deaf =27 days). Thus, differences between hearing and deaf birds in Supple-
entary Fig. 1b–f were not due to differences in time spent in recording chamber.
Text :  In agreement with Tschida and Mooney, we found a larger magnitude varianc-
entry change in deaf than in hearing birds (difference 0.25, p=0.005, tat =
2.96, df = 39; two-tailed two-tailed two-sample t-test, Supplementary Fig. 1c). However, we
found no difference in magnitude mean-entropy change (p=0.61, Supplementary
Fig. 1b). Note that Tchida and Mooney did not perform time-matched
comparisons against a group of hearing birds as we did, but they compared entropy
to baseline measurements taken before defening, implying that mean entropy
changes in their study could have been caused by birds’ gradual adaptation to the
recording character, irrespective of the defening orientation.
Text :  For non-targeted syllables, we calculated the pitch coefficient of variation CV1
on day i as CV1 = 1000 ☒. As we had done for targeted syllables, we calculated the
pitch within a fixed 16 ms window during a harmonic part of the syllab (provided
the latter existed, i.e., a harmonic part was found in 10/19 syllables in deaf animals
and in 9/22 syllables in hearing animals). The difference between the coefficients of
variation on the last day of defening and on the first day after LO was larger in
deaf birds than in hearing birds, Supplementary Fig. 1d.
Text :  To compute spectral changes due to defening, we performed a bias-variance
decomposition. To calculate spectrograms, we first tipped the sound waveform using
a Hamming window of 512 samples. The windowed signal was transformed into a
linear power sound spectrogram using the discrete fast Fourier transform computed
over segments of 512 samples and nonconvertage of 128 samples (corresponding to 4
ms). The log-power sound spectrogram was then obtained by taking the natural
logarithm of the linear power sound spectrogram using an offset of 0.1
(corresponding roughly to the 75th percentile). We computed the spectrograms of
non-targeted syllables within a time window defined by the duration of the shortest
yallable resolution. To achieve robustness to low-frequency noise present in the
recordings, we ignored the lowest 10 frequency bins corresponding to a frequency
cutoff at 0.5 Hz. The spectrogram bias of a particular syllable was defined as the
Trackdistance distance between the average spectrogram on two separate days on the
last day before defening and the first day after the end of the LO period. The
spectrogram variance was defined as the average pixel-wise variance on a given day.
There was no significant difference between hearing and deaf birds in terms of ether
spectrogram bias or variance (bias p=0.45, tat = −0.77, df = 39, variance: p=0.32,
tat = 1.01, df = 38, two-tailed two-sample t-test, Supplementary Fig. 1c, f). Thus, the
substitution period was too short to lead to a major spectral song degradation.
Text :  Temporal resolution of pitch changes. Inspired by the analysis of Charlesworth

dynamics of pitch changes in hearing birds exposed to white noise, we next assessed the temporal
time-stimulus to pitch changes in response to light off. We computed pitch traces over
the entire syllabids in a sliding window of 16 ms and plotted their temporal statistics
at a time resolution of 1 ms, Fig. 3a, b and Supplementary Fig. 2. In each bird, to
compare pitch traces from the last day of light off with traces from the last day
before light off, we computed d' values between the two distributions at 1 ms time time
scale relative to the window of LO delivery (Fig. 3c, f).
Text :  Reporting summary. Further information on research design is available in the Nature

<x_0.502><y_0.5312>Research Reporting Summary linked to this article.
Section-header :  Data availability
Text :  The pitch data that support the findings of this study together with the MATLAB scripts
to reproduce the analysis and figures are available at the ETH Research Collection with
the identifier (https://doi.org/10.3929/etha.b-0000431869)[19]. The raw data
underlying the pitch measurement is not deposited due to its size but is available from
the authors upon reasonable request. A reporting summary for this Article is available
a Supplementary Information file. Source data are provided with this paper.
Section-header :  availability
Text :  Our custom code to calculate pitch based on the Harmonic Product SpectrumW algorithm can be accessed from our GitHub repository under the following link: https://github.com/cho.ch/song/tellyutch, lyss/ hyx. The code for data analysis and simulation of a simple
agent using SARSA are available from the ETH Research Collection with identifier
[https://doi.org/10.3929/etha.b-0000431869)[19].
Section-header :  References
Bibliography :  1. Dreyey, G. & Avray, M. Reading the world through the skin and ears: a new
per perspective on sensory substitution. Front. Psychol. X. 457 (2012).
Bibliography :  2. Bach-y-Rita, P., Collins, C. C. C., Saunders, F. A., White, B. & Scaiden, L. Vision
substitution by tactile image projection. Nature **2211**, 963-964 (1966).
Bibliography :  3. von Mekhner, L., Pallas, S. L. & Sur, M. Visual behaviour mediated by
retinal projections directed to the auditory pathway. **Nature 404**, 871-876 (2006).
Page-footer :  10 NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)1115940 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-19686-w| www.nature.annature.com/naturecommunications
Caption :  Received: 30 September 2019; Accepted: Accepted: 14 October 202020;
Published online: 23 November 2020
