Text :  <class_Page-header>

<x_0.3125><y_0.3>sensory feedback is lacking, this need becomes overwhelming to the point that it can override the valence even of aversive stimuli. In our view, this remarkable dictatorship of the manipulation drive emphasizes one of the most basic needs associated with motor actions, which is to perceive sensory feedback.
Text :  Perhaps these insights provide us with new low-level clues about the function of song. By design, the slightly aversive LO events are the only feedback signals that deaf birds experience, which is why to satisfy their manipulation drive, they prefer it over no response at all (something is preferable for a curious agent over nothing). One function of song in birds may thus be to exert an influence on the environment to signal the singer’s presence, even if confirmed only by visual feedback as in our experiment. Birds’ tendency to avoid overlaps in their vocalizations[5] is independent evidence for their determination to maximize the control (impact) over the acoustic space during a vocalization.
Text :  In humans, there exists a compelling analogy of this remarkable alteration of affective stimulus valence. Namely, a manipulation drive shows up during boredom, which can prompt subjects to display behaviors that evidence paradoxical preference of otherwise aversive stimuli[6,47]. Lacking an alternative, subjects prefer an unpleasant experience rather than none at all.
Text :  Our findings strengthen the view that the frustration experienced by users of many substitution devices could be linked with the level of uncontrollability of the substituting input. By generalization, users might avoid motor actions when these do not elicit some form of substituting sensory feedback. Although subjects could be initially drawn towards information seeking when using a new device, once this drive saturates (which is assumed to happen early on for simple binary feedback), action selection will become dominated by the manipulation drive. Substitution system should therefore not be designed to maximize information, especially when information maximization interferes with a manipulation bias that draws the use of a device away from its ill-defined purpose.
Text :  By contraposition, to meet the needs of sensorily deprived subjects, substitution devices should provide feedback about motor actions and they should let subjects feel empowered through the new sense. One promising approach is to design substitution systems as part of closed sensorimotor loops[8], and ideally these systems would stimulate motor learning, which can be fun as in tennis practice or piano playing rather than strenuous as in learning a foreign language (analogies between learning to make use of substituted input and reading have been drawn1). Perhaps, acceptance of substitution devices would also increase when training setups are designed to let subjects predictably manipulate the substituting sensory input, in line with insights from interviews conducted with users of substitution devices[9].
Text :  Exploiting the manipulation drive in substitution therapies need not negatively impact information gain; rather, a manipulation bias may be beneficial when this bias points towards desirable actions. For example, the blind might benefit from a signal that reports the inverse distance of the hand to an object of choice. Or, in the context of speech rehabilitation, the hearing impaired may benefit from short-latency feedback when their variable speech agrees with signals of high comprehensibility; such feedback could be provided as visual signal (e.g., displayed in augmented reality devices) or as vibro-actile signal[9]. One requirement for such an idea to be effective is that the manipulation drive that we observed for single actions will generalize to action sequences such as multi-syllabic patterns.
Text :  Manipulation biases might also be relevant in neuroprothetic systems that aim to increase the perceptual space of subjects. For example, in sensory neuroprothetics, the sensor is not substituted but bypassed by electrical stimulation of downstream neurons. While neuroprothetic closed-loop systems have only recently started to be explored in the sensory domain[9] closed-loop systems
Text :  are very common in the motor domain[5], where animal models have played a crucial role in the development of a wide range of those systems[21,32] Closed-loop motor systems achieve better performance than open-loop systems[31,32] and there is a distinct performance benefit of high feedback rates[33]. These facts lend support to the idea that sensory neuroprothetic systems will also benefit from closed-loop design. In this regard, the zebra finch may lend itself as an ideal animal model for exploring closed-loop approaches to sensory neuroprothetics[34].
Text :  We believe that when the manipulation drive is abstracted as an action-selection principle of a software agent, such a drive can serve key computational functions. Namely, under some circumstances, manipulation seeking can be preferable to knowledge seeking because the latter is uninformative about relevance. For example, a manipulation drive can prevent an agent from getting stuck in front of a computer screen displaying random stimuli, which would otherwise be the most absorbing stimulus for a purely knowledge-driven agent that does not distinguish between self-generated and external stimuli. It is therefore not surprising that concepts such as manipulation and impact are gaining in importance in machine learning. In a recent curiosity-driven RL approach, it was found that a focus of actions on self-generated sensory feedback can dramatically expedite learning progress[5].
Text :  Further impulses for understanding the motivational drives behind spontaneous behaviors are strongly needed. Although we modeled the manipulation drive as the simple desire to maximize the distance between the world models with and without acting, other formulations of manipulation with simple effect are imaginable, for example based on empowerment[5,36].
Text :  We propose that sensory substitution is a promising paradigm not just to experimentally characterize the motivation to manipulate, but also to dissect the neural representations of affective valence[7] and to probe how substituting input is integrated into an existing circuit on the level of single cells, which so far is only understood on the level of brain areas[1,38]. Because the manipulation drive seems to have access to cross-modal learning mechanisms that are fast fast and efficient as those of normal motor learning, sensory substitution and the manipulation drive it reveals may provide further glimpes on some of the enabling factors of successful evolutionary adaptations.
Section-header :  Methods
Text :  Subjects and song recordings. We used 555 adult male zebra finches (Tiamiopypsyia guttata) raised in our breeding facilities in Zürich (Switzerland) and Orazy (France). At the beginning of the experiment, birds were between 90 and 200 days old. During the experiment, birds were housed individually in sound-attenuating recording chambers on a 14/10-h day/night cycle. Access to food and water was provided ad libitum. After 3-5 days of familiarization in the experimental environment, birds resumed singing at a normal rate. Songs were recorded with a wallattached microphone, band-pass filtered, and digitized at a sampling rate of 32 kHz. All experimental procedures were approved by the Veterinary Office of the Canton of Zurich and by the French Ministry of Research and the ethical committee “Paris-Sud et Centra” (CEEA No. 59, project 2017-12).
Text :  Visual substitution of pitch. To provide pitch substitution, we ran a custom LabVIEW (National Instruments, Inc.) program. We targeted a harmonic syllable using a two-layer neural network trained on a subset of normally clustered vocalizations. We evaluated pitch (fundamental frequency) in a 16-ms window at a fixed delay after the syllable detection point (which occurred at a roughly constant time lag after syllable onset). We estimated pitch using the Harmonic Product Spectrum algorithm[9,60].
Text :  Following pitch estimation, we provided pitch substitution by switching off the light (using a relay) in the sound recording chamber after a delay of 12 ms and for a duration in the range between 100 and 500 ms. Two birds were held in dim light and instead of switching off the light, we provided substitution by turning on an additional light. We submitted either high or low pitch depending on a manually set threshold. In two birds we randomly delivered substitution in 50% of detected syllables, independently of the pitch measurement.
Text :  To cumulatively drive the pitch of the targeted syllable away from the baseline, every morning, we adjusted the pitch threshold to the median pitch value on the previous day, where we computed the median on all noncurated neural network
Page-footer :  8 NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:5940 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-19686-w | www.nature.com/naturecommunications
